# portfolio
My final project portfolio for MTM6201 - Web Dev II

When designing and developing my photography portfolio, it was important to me to blend creativity and professionalism. My target audience for my portfolio is government workers working for environmental branches of the government of Canada, for instance, Parks Canada, as well as non-profit organizations such as the Royal Canadian Geographical Society. 

Photography that showcases Canadian landscape and wildlife is important for this audience, so it was important for me to showcase my skills in this area right away. This is why I decided to include a carousel of some of my favourite images right on the home page, to catch the viewer's attention and show what I can do. I used the Bootstrap framework to code this carousel, and made sure to include four version of each photograph for optimization: mobile low-resolution screens, mobile high-resolution screens, desktop low-resolution screens, and finally desktop high-resolution screens. 

It was also important to me that the viewer gets the most important and relevant information about me right away, which is why I opted to incldue a short paragraph about myself and a professional headshot on the home page as well. 

Responsive design was extremely important when designing my portfolio, with the two screen sizes I focused on most being mobile and desktop/tablet. I decided to design a mostly linear layout for mobile screens, with most elements centred in one column. When the screen moves to a medium breaking point for tablet and larger/desktop, I used bootstrap to move into a multi-column layout. On the index page, I decided to design for a two-column layout, with each block of text adjacent to its corresponding photo/carousel. I decided to flip the order of the photography carousel and the Photography heading, paragraph text, and button, when the breakpoint reached medium size, so that it would be on the opposite side of the headshot photograph above it. I did this because I believe it creates a more interesting zig-zag design and breaks up the text for the two sections nicely. I did this by adding order-md-2 to the container with the photography carousel and text, so that the order of the carousel and text would flip at a medium breakpoint, but the text would still be above the carousel on mobile screens. 

I also decided to use a free CSS library to add a dynamic hover state to the buttons. I used the Hover.css library (https://ianlunn.github.io/Hover/) and added the sweep-to-bottom background transition to add some creativity to my buttons.

In my footer, I decided to use social media icons to link to my social media accounts. I did this by using the a href tag, and embedding the svg files from https://iconmonstr.com/. 

The most challenging part of this process was learning how to transition from relying on css to using Bootstrap for my layout. It took some time to figure out how to work with the Bootstrap grid system, but I was able to use my knowledge of css to my advantage. For instance, as I mentioned before, I knew to use "order" from flex to change the order of the carousel and the text when moving to a medium breakpoint. Another challenge I encountered was figuring out how to develop a horizontal sliding carousel of images for my Photography page, with a scollbar instead of the pre-developed carousels from Bootstrap. I decided to overcome this challenge by once again returning to my knowledge of css, and remembering that I could use "stack overflow" to allow images to go outside of the screen/container. When I applied stack overflow, I noticed a scrollbar automatically appeared on my browser, however it disappeared when the user was not hovering over the scrollable images. I wanted to ensure that the scrollbar is always visible, so that users know to scroll horizontally for more images. I did some research and discovered that in order to do this, I would have to use my main.css file, and call :-webkit-scrollbar-track. I played around with the css by adding a width, height, colour and border, and then adding a hover state, until the scrollbar stayed visible even when not hovering over the images. I was really proud of the way I was able to use my previous knowledge of stack overflow, and my research skills to find a solution. I am now much more confident when it comes to creating custom horizontally scrollable carousels of images! However, I then ran into a second challenge: how would I turn this scrollable carousel into a grid on medium and large screens? I used my knowledge of Bootstrap to switch from a one column layout on mobile to a 12 column layout at a medium breakpoint, deciding to put the header and text on the left of the screen (start) taking up 3 columns, and the grid taking up the remaining 9 columns. I did some research about Bootstrap grids and came across information about using Bootstrap's grid system to create an image gallery. I learned the Bootstrap language required to create an image gallery, and applied it to my code. I was very proud of my ability to problem solve by using my previous knowledge of Bootstrap's grid system, and my research skills to find an answer. I ensured that all my images were well optimized for the web by including four versions of each photograph, as I had previously done for the images in my online portfolio. One for low-resolution mobile, high-resolution mobile, low-resolution desktop, and high-resolution desktop. Keeping all of these images well organized was also a challenge at first, but I found a system that worked well. I created each image using Derivv.com, and organized each photo into separate folders within my main folder. This made typing out the pathway to each photo easy to navigate, reducing the chances of forgetting where each photo was stored, or linking to the wrong photo. Discovering this system definitely improved by organizational skills.

Overall, developing my portfolio website helped me improve my knowledge and skills of using the Bootstrap framework for layout and design when coding. Though I still had to rely on css in some areas, using the Bootstrap framework significantly cut down on the time it took to code many elements of my website, in particular the carousel on the index page, and the collapsable navigation bar. 